VOCABULARY.

clamor, 6ris, m. shout.

clarus, a, um, adj. clear, brz'yht ;
ylarious.

classis, is, f. fleat.

claudo, ere, si, sum, shut; shut in.

claustrum, i, n. bar (claudo).

coepi, isse, v. defective, beyin.

coetus, 1]ss m. yatheriny (zm-itus,
eum, eo).

cognomen, mis, n. surnanw; name.

cognosco, ere, ῐιόνί, ustum, incep-
tive‚ begin to recoquize, lem-n.

cogo, ere, e6egi, effictum, drive to-
yecher, compel (=co-igo eum, ago).

colligo, ere, legi, lectum, qather to-
yether (cum ; lego).

collis, is, m. hill.

collum, i, n. neck.

0610, ere, ui, cultum, take care os;
till; cherish.

0516nus‚ i, m. tillem semer.
columna, ae, f. column.

coma, ae, f. hair (κόμη).

obmitor, iri, atus sum, accompa72y3

comitatus often passively, accom-
panied.

commissum, i, n. offence, crime.

committo, ere, misi, missum, incur
or do a wrony.

commbveo, ere, mc‘m', menum, move
stronyly, scir up.

compages, is, f. sasteniny (cum,
pango).

compello, fite, avi, atum, add ress.

compello, ere, pnli, pulsum, drive.

complector, i, xus sum, embrace.

complexus, fis, m. embrace.

compono, ere, p6sui, pbsitum or
postum, lay ιο rest, arranqe, calm.

conciHo, aire, avi, atum, bring] to-
aether ; procare.

conclsldo, ere, clfisi, olflsum, shut in
(cum, claudo).

103

concurro, ere, curri, cursum, run
toyether3 ‘meet (in battle).

concursus, s1s‚m. meetz'ny, assembly.

condo, ere, didi, ditum, put toyether3
build.

confido, ete, confisus sum, v. semi-
dep. trust in.

confagio, Ere, ffigi, fugitum, fly sor
resuye.

congredjor, i, gressus sum, come
loyether, fiyht.

coniungo, ere, nxi, notum, join to-
yether.

coniunx, figis, m. and f. one joined3
husband, wife, spouse (cum, iungo).

conscendo, ere, di, sum, climb,

mount ; embark on.

conscius, a, um, adj. knowinq or
conseious os (with gem).

consido, ere, sedi, sessum, settle
down.

consilium, ii, n. counsel, plan.

consisto, ere, stiffi, ststum, stand
etim settle; rest.

conspectus, fis, m. siyht.

conspicio, ere, spexi, spectum, be-⁴
hold, view.

constItuo, ere, ui, fitum, establish3
determine.

contendo, Ere, di, tum, strive, use
eayer effert.

contingo, ere, figi, tactum, touch.

contra, prep. with aee. against, op-
posite3 adv. in ans-wer.

contrsaoe'ius, a, um, adj. opposite.

contundo, ere, tadi, nisum, crush.

confibium‚ ii, n. marriaye (in the
poets often a trisyll. =conubyum).

convello, ere, velli, vulsum, tear or
pluclc viyorously3 shatter.

convenio, ire, veni, ventum, come
toycther, assemble.

converto, ere, ti, sum, turn; turn
towards.

